---
layout: post
title: Lab1
subtitle: Lab1
gh-repo: z2go/beautiful-jekyll-fork
gh-badge: [star, fork, follow]
tags: [test]
comments: true
mathjax: true
author: John Hurd
---

Using a dataset containing data about all of the digimon, I was tasked with completing the following tasks 

1.  Finding the average speed of all of the Digimon

2.  Writing a function that could count the number of Digimon with a specific attribute. For example, count_digimon("Type", "Vaccine") would return 70.

3.  Finding a team of up to 3 digimon such that their combined Atk values were greater than 300 and combined Memory values less than 15.

4.  (For extra credit) writing a function similar to count_digimon, but, this one would count the number of digimon with a numeric value between a min and max value.

In this article, I describe my answers and process in finding them.

For the first question, when parsing through the data, I would count the total speed of all of the Digimon while also counting the number of Digimon. Then, I would divide the total speed by the number of digimon to get the average speed. The average speed was roughly 120.4.

For the second question, the function was rather uninteresting:
```python
def count_digimon(attr,val): # Returns the number of digimon that have a certain value for a particular attribute using attr_count
    try:
        return attr_count[attr][val]
    except:
        return 0
```

All that this function does is take a value from a nested dictionary. The most important part of the function is just the attr_count dictionary.
```python

attr_count = {} #Stores the amount of each value of each attribute

with open("digimon.csv","r") as f:
    data = csv.DictReader(f)
    for row in data:
        for key in row.keys():
            if key not in attr_count.keys():
                attr_count[key] = {}
            if row[key] not in attr_count[key].keys():
                attr_count[key][row[key]] = 0
            attr_count[key][row[key]] += 1
 

```

This code cycles through all of the rows in the data table, cycling through each value in the row. Since we use a DictReader for parsing the data, each row is stored as a 
